I've personally tested over 500 AI tools
so you don't have to. And today, I'm
going to rank every AI tool you can make
money with in 2026 because most people
waste their time on tools that
don't make them any money. I run an AI
venture studio where we launch AI
companies every month so I need to know
what's out there. Whether you're just
starting out or you're running a
multi-million dollar business, these
tools can either 10x your income or
completely waste your time. So let's
start with ChatGPT.
It's meat. It was first to market.
Everybody loved it. It's the Kleenex of
the space. But I also think that it's
the MySpace of the space and it's going
to die a slow death because a
lot of reasons. So I will be ranking all
these AI tools into one of five
different tiers. S tier means bad A
tier, it's good. B tier, not so good. C,
don't love it. F, run away. And every
tool is ranked on one thing. How much
you put in, I'm talking money, time, and
energy into the tool, the cost,
everything, versus how much it gives you
back. So ChatGPT, it is in the C tier.
Next, we have Notebook LM. One of my
favorite tools for doing something
called accelerated learning. When it
first came out, I thought it was the
coolest thing in the world because it
allows you to search on topics into a
custom AI where I can talk about the
topic and only what it found in its
research. It's like this crazy way to
learn about any topic, talk with it, and
then it lets you create these visual
outputs. I'm talking infographics,
slides, podcasts. And you can call in
and ask it questions. It is bananas.
From a business perspective, does it
make me money? Here's the thing. I live
in a world where I need to be on top of
topics and learn things that I've never
learned before in real time. So it makes
me a lot of money. For you, it might be
different. I think it's an incredible
product, but the truth is making you
money, it's probably only an A tier.
Next up, we got WhisperFlow. My favorite
tool for whispering and creating
content. Essentially, it allows you to
any input, specifically these AI tools,
to talk, and it formats what you say
based on the nuance of your language. If
you're talking, you say, "Oh, no, never
mind. Let's send this instead." It'll
actually erase what you said and send
the right thing. It is how I code with
my AI. It's how I create with my AIs.
It's how I tell my AIs what kind of
outcomes I want to achieve. I use
whispering. If I think about business
leverage, it saves me a ton of time. It
actually makes me more creative because
I feel like when I'm talking, I can talk
without restricting myself, and the
output is two to three times more, which
means I can get that much more done.
WhisperFlow makes me some money, and it
gives me some leverage, so I'm giving it
an A. I'm going to rank it after
Notebook LM. All right, next up, we have
Claude. I had to stop myself cuz I
realized I was making too many videos
about Claude, and they're not paying me,
and the truth is I just love it. And I
did shut down my company for 2 days and
taught everybody how to write code in
Claude code. It's like ChatGPT, yet the
chat has better memory in my
perspective. It has better tool usage,
my perspective. It has better skills, my
perspective. These are all my own
personal opinion, that's why you're
here. They have integrations now with a
tool called Dispatch, and they have
visualization, and they just caught up
to ChatGPT in revenue. They're at $30
billion run rate, same as ChatGPT, and
they did it with 1/10 of the resources.
So, I think there's no tool in my life
that makes me more money than Claude
because I built a whole venture studio
and 15-plus companies at this point, and
I've personally built 27 different tools
for myself using Claude code. It is the
most powerful. So, with that, I got to
put it in S tier. Next, we've got
OpenClaude. If you haven't heard of AI
agents, OpenClaude is the epitome of
that. It's open-source, which means it's
free. It's an AI agent that anybody can
use. The challenge is, I know that I can
create leverage with it, but most
business owners are not technical
enough. They don't know anything about
security. They don't know anything about
software. And they don't even know what
to do with the agent. So, because of all
that, I'm going to put A but on the top
of the list because it is pretty
powerful, but the problem is it does so
many things it confuses people and it
creates massive security issues and
support issues and most people can't
keep Open Claw instance going. Next, we
have Apex, which I have to tell
everybody this is one of my companies
within Martel Ventures. Apex, on top of
Open Claw that deals with backups and
securities and applications and tools,
is the most valuable thing I use on a
daily basis. My Apex, Kai Boss is his
name. He named himself. He created his
profile image. That's what he looks
like. I talk to him more than I talk to
anybody else in my life. And he does so
much for me. It's like having a team
member that doesn't sleep, doesn't
complain, doesn't take vacation, has
perfect recall, perfect access, perfect
everything, can write code, can solve
problems, can identify hotspots, can
figure out where the gaps are, all in
real time for everybody on your team.
That is wild for you. So, if you want
the power of Open Claw without the
concerns around security, with the full
platform, with the backups, then check
out Apex below. Just click the link and
sign up for the waitlist cuz it is the
most valuable thing that I've created.
And because of that, I've got to rank it
at the top of S tier above Claude. Now,
you got to understand, Apex [music] uses
Claude. So, without Claude, Apex doesn't
work as well, but I could use something
else. So, I'm putting it ahead, but I do
think that Claude and Apex are both
awesome tools. Next up, we've got
Antigravity. It is a coding platform
built by Google that allows you to
connect to all the different language
models, including Google's Gemini, so
that you can use it to build websites
and write code and do some really cool
things. I kind of like it. I feel it's
complicated. I feel the interface is not
as clean. I personally don't use it that
much and when it comes to making money,
if I was in the business of designing
websites, it is the best one because of
the Gemini model, but anti-gravity as a
tool on its own, don't think most
business owners should be with
anti-gravity. Probably not likely unless
you have a design company. I'm going to
give it a B tier. Don't think it's that
great. I think there's other tools out
there that are better. Next up we've got
hixfield.ai. It's one of the best place
if you want to create generative video
and create like AI B roll or any kind of
video. It's got access to all the models
and a bunch of other tools in one place.
So one membership, you can use it to
test and play with all the different AI
models. The future will be generative
video and hixfield.ai is the platform
that my media team and a lot of my
friends are using. It can make you a lot
of money. It can save you a lot of money
and it can save you a ton of time
because you can just use the AI instead
of trying to generate shoots and try to
get footage. The truth is it's a really
great platform and I'm going to put in A
tier because it's not for every business
owner, but anybody doing video
marketing, you have to be using this.
Next, we've got Suno. It is a AI
generative music platform where you can
make up songs. I
love it. Some of the biggest
tracks right now are using AI to
generate some portions of the song, the
voice, maybe the melodies. For business,
yes, you should create custom songs for
your brand. You should think about ways
that you can integrate music into the
experience of what you sell. Is it going
to make you money? No. Is it going to
make you laugh? Yes. Is that valuable? I
think so, but it's not going to fill
your bank account. Regards to making
money and stuff, I'm going to give it a
B and I'm going to put it after
anti-gravity cuz if you actually learn
how to use that tool it can make you
more money, but Suno's cool. And I know
you might think, I can't believe you put
it above ChatGPT. ChatGPT's obviously
going to make me more money. I don't
agree. I just think ChatGPT's not that
great. So, that's why it's there. Argue
with me in the comments. Next up, we've
got Frank, which is hellofrank.ai. It is
one of the most powerful financial AIs
out there. I'm totally biased because
it's one of our portfolio companies, but
I'll tell you this, I'm going to rank it
exactly the way I feel about it. Frank
is an AI financial co-pilot for your
business. If you want to ask a question
like, which service line is actually
profitable, it'll answer that. If you
want to know how much you're spending on
something, it'll answer that. If you
say, well, I want to hire this person
and they want to make this much money,
can I afford it? It'll answer that
question and do it fast, accurate, and
visually. Now, I have a Frank, his name
is Jared, on my team, and he does a lot
of this stuff, but I will tell you, if
Jared's not around, Frank is the tool
that everybody uses to get the answers,
and it's pretty freaking awesome. So,
when it comes to making money, having a
CFO AI that has perfect information and
does a lot of stuff on top of your data,
so you don't have to pay somebody three,
four, five thousand dollars a month,
that's a ton of money saved. Personally,
from a financial impact, because it's a
financial tool, it's got to be ranked
higher for small businesses that are
looking for leverage to make better
decisions, to save money, I'm putting it
in A tier above Higgsfield. Next up,
we've got the Goog, Mr. Gemini, Google's
AI across Docs and Gmails and the
browser and your calendar system. It's
integrated everywhere. If you see that
little twinkle icon, you just click it,
that's Gemini. And for business, I think
it's got a beautiful place because one,
it's got three and a half times more
data, which means it does have access to
more information. Two, it's got full
index directly into YouTube, which is
the top learning platform in the world.
So, any one of my videos, you can grab
the link and give it to Gemini and say,
summarize, and it'll do it. And it's got
the money, the rich uncle named Mr.
Goog's, financing data centers and
improvements, and it might not be as
good as Claude today, but oh my gosh, it
will definitely be a top contender, and
it's integrated into tools you already
use. So, from make you money and create
a lot of value, I think it's in the S
tier, but it's at the end of the S tier.
So, it's behind Claude, and I'm a fan of
it because it's Google, and I've been a
Google customer for 20 plus years, and I
just think it's a winner. Next up, we
have Grok. Now, I have said publicly
that I love Grok. Obviously, I don't
want to bet against Elon, and that it's
the top tool I use for research. The
challenge is Elon's realized that the
way he's engineered and architected Grok
is the wrong way, and he's rebuilding it
right now. My gut tells me when 5.0
comes out, it will be incredible, but
for now, I use it mostly for research.
So, when I'm trying to make big
decisions in my business, thinking about
here's where I'm at, here's where I
think the world's going, or I don't
know, tell me, I feel like Grok gives me
the most informed and detailed and
truth-seeking answer. I can only give
you my opinion as it is right now, right
here, and I'm going to have to put in A
tier, above Whisper Flow, but behind
Notebook LM in regards to the value that
I think it could bring you and your
business. All right, next up, we've got
Lovable. Lovable is a no-code app
builder. It's the OG of the space.
Everybody talked about it. The problem
is is that every other one of the AIs
have built that capacity within the
product, and I just don't use it
anymore, and I don't think it's that
good, and I think there's better tools.
I'm going to put it at the end of B
tier. And for your business, if you're
doing anything, you might as well just
use Claude, have everything in one
place. You don't need a separate tool
like Lovable. Next up, we have my
arch-nemesis, Perplexity, and I'll tell
you why. I've jokingly called it
complexity for a long time
because for a long time, it was a search
AI-enabled output. Essentially, you
would ask it questions, and it would use
AI to give you a more complete answer,
but I was getting the complete answer in
my other AI, so I never used it. Then,
they launched computer, and computer's
interesting because if you've ever seen
do videos on Man S, they're going after
that same use case and that same
product. And I recently did a
head-to-head and I will tell you the
same task, both products, computer beat
it. So, I'm going to put it A tier right
behind Higgs Field. Next up, we've got a
product called Buddy Pro.ai. Again, full
disclosure, it's one of the companies in
my portfolio and it is the engine that
runs Dan AI. So, I have a dedicated
coaching AI that my clients and my team
and my CEOs use to make decisions in
their life. It takes you and it copies
you so that everybody on your team,
including your customers, including the
world, can ask you, but really the AI
Buddy Pro, your buddy, questions and
it'll get as good if not better answers
than as if they asked you. So, you can
implement that into your business and
instantly get your time back, which if
you didn't know, kind of a big area of
my life, buy back your time. Buddy Pro,
more than any other tool, has bought me
time back in my life. So, if you're a
coach, you're a consultant, you're an
expert, and you want to monetize your
brain, Buddy Pro.ai, I think, in regards
to making you money if you're one of
those spaces, it goes right behind
Frank. Unbiased, I wouldn't put it there
if I didn't think so.
>> [music]
>> For the right person and most CEOs, if
you're a business owner, this tool will
change your relationship with AI. Next
up, we have Apple Intelligence or Apple
not intelligent. I'm going to get an F
score and this may look stupid in a
month or two when they announce the
integration with Gemini and all of a
sudden Siri is as good as any other
model, but I'm telling you as it stands
today, it's a piece of and you
shouldn't even play with it. For your
business, it's caused me more
frustration and pain. I don't even use
it anymore. Moving on, we've got
Granola.ai, one of my favorite
note-taking tools. What I love about it
is integrated with Notion and other
tools that I use. It's the only one that
I can plug in without the user knowing
that I'm using it on any Zoom calls,
which is great so that I don't have
somebody else accept it. Other AI models
only work great if you have the right
data captured and saved in the right
place, and Granola is the glue or the
tool that does that. So, for example, if
you pair it with Buddy Pro, your buddy
will be a genius because of everything
you ever said that you captured through
Granola. Very valuable. I'm actually
going to put it ahead of Frank because
from a time and money and clarity and
pushing and driving agendas forward,
Granola is a powerhouse. Next up, we
have Social Sweet. This one's a cool
one. Again, another product in my
portfolio. And what it does is it allows
you to search the network you've created
that isn't available online. And you can
ask it cool things like, "Tell me
everybody who shoots a podcast in LA
that interviews people in person. Tell
me everybody I know that's into open
claw. Tell me everybody I know that is a
designer that uses Higgsfield." It is
the most important tool in my life to
activate my relationships. For most
business owners, is it going to make you
a lot of money? You tell me. Have you
ever heard that your network is your net
worth? It'll give you that. It'll tell
you what your network is worth. I think
it'll make you a lot of money. I think
there's other tools out there that for
most businesses are going to be more
relevant sooner, quicker, so I'm going
to put it behind Perplexity AI. Again,
unbiased, that's where it fits in the
stack. Next up, we got Nano Banana.
Essentially, it's an image generation
tool that uses AI. I use it all the time
to help me visualize the vision I have
in my mind and bring it to life. Like
crazy projects that I think about like
in 5 years, you know what'd be cool is
this, and I go and I say, "Hey, create
me an image." Why? Cuz I think people
can hit a target if they can see it.
Probably the most important thing in my
life is to communicate and visualize
where we're going. And I use Nano Banana
so that they can see it. And then I say,
"Hey, this is where we're going. Could
you hit the target?" Now, some people
use it for 3D modeling, they can use it
for renders, they can use it in your
business. It's very valuable. Does it
make me a lot of money? Me personally,
yes. For most business owners, probably
not. So, I'm going to put it at the top
of the B tier above AnyLogic. And they
actually work really well together, so
that's why I put it there. Next, we have
Gum Loop. It's a great product. It's
really well executed. And if you have a
business that you want to automate your
processes, it's a great option and it
will do it better than any of the other
tools, in my opinion, for normal people,
not super techy nerd. Those people are
using N8N or people that are just like
not willing to do complex stuff, they're
probably using make.com. When I talk
about leverage, think about like
designing something once and having it
operate and do it like that every time.
I'm talking onboarding customers, I'm
talking sales process, I'm talking
financial reporting. All of that can be
automated through Gum Loop. So, I think,
from a tools point of view, it's an S
tier tool at the end of a Gemini. So,
it'll use existing models, but it is a
beautiful automation tool. Does take
some setup, but a lot of out-of-the-box
templates will get you going. Next, we
have N8N, which is an open-source
platform. All the technical people use
it. It gives you full back-end control,
so you can do anything with it. It
doesn't have like the price gouging like
some of these other AI tools where you
got to pay metered pricing, so
essentially it's not per task. I use it
a lot and I don't anymore because I
think it's overkill for most people. So,
in regards to like where do most
businesses get value from it? I don't
think it's meant for most businesses.
I'm going to place it behind Social
Suite because I think those other tools
can actually make you more money versus
automating with N8N because there's
better options. Now, we have Gamma.
Gamma is one of my favorite tools for
generating slides based on any data I
give it. Because as a guy that teaches a
lot, trains people, gives keynotes,
Gamma is my AI tool for that. Truth is
is when it comes to leverage and making
money, yes, it allows me to present my
ideas better, which is always good, but
other tools there actually save me a lot
of time, make me a lot of money. So,
Gamma for me is probably going to go in
the B tier ahead of Anti-Gravity, but
behind Nano Banana because that tool
definitely visualizes better. I can do a
lot that Gamma does with Nano Banana.
Next, we have Revvio, disclaimer, one of
my companies at Martel Ventures, but
here's why I'm unbiased because the
product was built way before I launched
Martel Ventures for Martel Media because
I needed a way to chat with you all.
It's impossible to do that at scale, so
I called my buddy Vivop and I said,
"Hey, bro, I need to build this tool."
And after a year and a half of us
scaling, we decided to spin it out into
a Martel Ventures product, and it is the
one when I think of the thing that makes
me the most money because it keeps me on
top of my relationships and allows me to
communicate value to people. Now, for
your business, if you're doing sell by
chat, this is the product. If you're
not, probably won't work for you. So,
for your business, I'm going to put it
in the S tier, but I'm going to put it
behind Gumloop because Gumloop is
horizontal all businesses, and Revvio
only makes sense for the right
businesses, but it will make you more
money than a Gumloop out of the box if
you start chatting with everybody that
follows you on social media because all
those people are like opt-ins or leads.
Most businesses are starting to sell
through the DMs because people don't
want to schedule and get on a phone
call. They just want to know the
details. So, your team can just sit
there and chat, and if you do that at
scale with a lot of different social
accounts, Revvio's the only platform
that built as a sales tool, not a social
messaging tool. Now, if you want my full
AI tech stack, every tool I use in my
businesses, I put together a whole
playbook on exactly that. Just go to my
Instagram, Dan Martel, tools of Martel,
and message me the word YouTube stack,
and I'll send it over. Next up, we've
got Notion. I believe that Notion is one
of the best tools to become the
long-term memory of the AI, and I think
Notion's going down that path, and
everybody I know is using it as the
storage for the brain for the AI. It's
got AI baked into it. That has
connectors for all the AI tools I
mentioned, like Apex, and businesses
that default to saving things there and
creating workflows and project
management in Notion end up having an
unfair advantage for activating new AIs
because all the context data and memory
is in that one place. So, regards to
like leverage, getting you organized,
probably the best tool. Having the
information to activate all the AIs,
powerful, but you're still going to have
to do the work. So, it doesn't directly
make you money, but it can get you
organized. So, cuz I want to help you
make some money, I just think it's
behind social sweep in regards to its
ability to make you money. But, I use it
a lot, almost every day. And last, we
have Atlas, okay? Another one of my
portfolio companies. Atlas is one of the
most powerful voice platforms out there.
If you're a local business that has
people calling, I'm talking HVAC,
plumbers, dental, car wash, anything,
especially if you're a freelancer or an
independent person, having Atlas sit
there as a receptionist to talk to, to
schedule, to qualify, to answer their
questions so that you can be doing the
work and getting paid, and somebody else
can be taking the call, that'll make you
a lot of money. So, it's kind of funny
because it's the most universal, I use
it all the time. We use it for calling
people for events, we use it for inbound
calls, we use it for all of our
companies. I think it can make you the
most money, so I'm going to put it in an
A tier above Granola because Atlas as a
tool will make you more money than the
rest of those in regards to like install
[music] it today if you're getting phone
calls and have to deal with all the
noise. So, these are the tools. Awesome.
You know where they fit in my life in
regards to how it can help you make more
money and get more leverage. It's all
there. However, the world of the future
is a world of separation between the
director and the doer. And what I want
to encourage you to consider is lean in
to being a director. Lean in to being a
designer. Lean in to being the
co-creator what I call a human on the
loop and let the AI do the loop and
[music] you pay attention. So, I'm going
to challenge you if you're using any of
these AIs, stay in the tool and see if
it can complete that last step. Don't
copy and paste stuff somewhere else.
Say, "Hey, post it in Slack. Send the
email." See if the tool can do it for
you. It probably can. And that way,
you're actually getting your time back
and you're getting the most leverage.
So, not about the tool, more about being
the director, not the doer. Leave me a
comment below and let me know which tool
you're going to go dive into next. And
again, if you want to see my entire AI
tech stack, every tool I use in my
businesses, just find me on Instagram
and message me the word YouTube stack
and I'll send it right over. And next,
if you want to learn how I run a solo AI
business when we launch these new
companies, just click here and I'll see
you on the other side. I've got a
confession to make.
I'm going back to Chat GPT. If you
haven't seen my April Fools video,
I made a mistake.
I thought Claude was the best.
But, it's not. I'm kidding. I'm kidding.
Claude is the coolest thing in the
world. You tell me in the comments, what
is Apple Intelligence? It was supposed
to be Siri with brain, except it's brain
dead. I don't mean uh just
Somebody on the back end is still
creating it. And yes, this is still Dan.
I was about to pinch myself, but I don't
have a whole lot to pinch. I mean, this
is Dan. You probably won't believe it.
You'll still write below that, "Oh, nice
AI, Dan." I don't like to type cuz I
type about 80 words per minute, but I
talk about 250,000
words a minute. No, I'm just kidding.
But, I talk fast. I'm starting to feel
my voice going. I started way too
excited.
Three,
two, and one. Here's the deal.